Vim Cheat Sheet for VS Code
1. Modes
Normal Mode:
Press Esc to enter Normal mode (default mode for navigation and commands).

Insert Mode:
Press i to enter Insert mode for text editing.
Press Esc to return to Normal mode.

Visual Mode:
Press v to enter Visual Mode (for selecting text).
Use Esc to return to Normal mode.

There are three types of Visual Mode:

Visual Character Mode (v): Select text character by character.
Visual Line Mode (V): Select entire lines of text.
Visual Block Mode (Ctrl-v): Select rectangular blocks of text for columnar editing.

2. Navigation
Cursor Movement:
h: Move left
j: Move down
k: Move up
l: Move right
0: Move to the beginning of the line
^: Move to the first non-whitespace character of the line
$: Move to the end of the line
w: Move to the start of the next word
e: Move to the end of the current/next word
b: Move to the start of the previous word
gg: Move to the top of the file
G: Move to the bottom of the file
Ctrl-d: Scroll down half a screen
Ctrl-u: Scroll up half a screen

3. Editing
Basic Editing:
x: Delete the character under the cursor
dd: Delete the current line
yy: Copy (yank) the current line
p: Paste the copied text below the cursor
u: Undo the last action
Ctrl-r: Redo the undone action
r: Replace the character under the cursor
ciw: Change (replace) the current word
cw: Change (replace) from the cursor to the end of the word
daw: Delete the word under the cursor (including spaces)
di": Delete inside quotes

4. Searching
/pattern: Search for a pattern forward
n: Jump to the next match
N: Jump to the previous match
?pattern: Search for a pattern backward
*: Search for the word under the cursor downward
#: Search for the word under the cursor upward

5. Indentation
>>: Indent the current line
<<: Unindent the current line
=: Auto-format the selected code or line

6. Working with Files
:w: Save the current file
:q: Quit Vim (close the editor)
:wq: Save and quit
:q!: Quit without saving changes
:e filename: Open a file
:vsp filename: Open a file in a vertical split
:sp filename: Open a file in a horizontal split
7. Splits and Tabs
Ctrl-w s: Split the window horizontally
Ctrl-w v: Split the window vertically
Ctrl-w w: Switch between splits
:tabnew: Open a new tab
gt: Move to the next tab
gT: Move to the previous tab

8. Features Supported by the VSCodeVim Extension
Basic Vim Modes:
Supports Normal, Insert, Visual, and Command-line modes.
Registers:
Supports Vim's registers (e.g., "a, "0, etc.).
Macros:
Record and replay macros using q followed by a register name (e.g., qa to record a macro into register a).
Search and Replace:
Search using / and ?.
Replace text using :s commands.
Multi-Cursor Support:
Use Ctrl-n to create multiple cursors and edit simultaneously.
Leader Key:
Supports defining custom commands with the Leader key (configurable in settings).
Visual Block Mode:
Supports Visual Block Mode with Ctrl-v to select and manipulate blocks of text.
How to Use Visual Mode
Enter Visual Mode:

Press v to start Character Mode selection.
Press V to start Line Mode selection (select whole lines).
Press Ctrl-v for Block Mode (select rectangular blocks of text).
Move the Cursor:

Use h, j, k, l or other movement keys to expand or shrink the selection.
Perform Actions:

Delete: d
Yank (Copy): y
Change (replace): c
Indent: > to indent, < to unindent
Exit Visual Mode:

Press Esc to return to Normal mode.